# API: Application Program Interface

Most services online
will have "APIs" that let you programmatically access their data. For
example, the US government has an API that lets you get weather
forecasts, which you could use to easily get a weather forecast in your
shell.

Most of these APIs have a similar format. They are structured URLs,
often rooted at `api.service.com`, where the path and query parameters
indicate what data you want to read or what action you want to perform.
For the US weather data for example, to get the forecast for a
particular location, you issue GET request (with `curl` for example) to
https://api.weather.gov/points/42.3604,-71.094. The response itself
contains a bunch of other URLs that let you get specific forecasts for
that region. Usually, the responses are formatted as JSON, which you can
then pipe through a tool like [`jq`](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) to
massage into what you care about.

Some APIs require authentication, and this usually takes the form of
some sort of secret _token_ that you need to include with the request.
You should read the documentation for the API to see what the particular
service you are looking for uses, but "[OAuth](https://www.oauth.com/)"
is a protocol you will often see used. At its heart, OAuth is a way to
give you tokens that can "act as you" on a given service, and can only
be used for particular purposes. Keep in mind that these tokens are
_secret_, and anyone who gains access to your token can do whatever the
token allows under _your_ account!

[IFTTT](https://ifttt.com/) is a website and service centered around the
idea of APIs â€” it provides integrations with tons of services, and lets
you chain events from them in nearly arbitrary ways. Give it a look!

